  Hello folks !


This is libmikmod, version 3.1.10, a portable sound library for Unix.
Check out the file 'NEWS' for more history information.


>> BUILDING LIBMIKMOD
---------------------

- If you're not building libmikmod for the Macintosh, then you're lost
  in the sources. Go up one directory, and read the main README file.

So, you're on one of those esthetically-challenged Apple boxes ? Or on a
sober but nice classic beige box ? With a near-buttonless mouse ?

libmikmod can be built using Metrowerks Codewarrior (Version Pro 5 being
used to create the project file) and Apple MPW (only tested with CW
compilers).

Read the file INSTALL in this directory for compilation instructions.
The projects will generate code for 68k as well as PowerPC processors.

HTML documentation of the library, for programmers, is located in the
doc directory.

For more information on this port, please contact Anders Bjoerklund
(email: afb@algonet.se, web: http://www.algonet.se/~afb)


>> THANKS
---------

We would like to thank everyone who contributed to libmikmod. Their
names are in the AUTHORS file for the significative contributions, but
some other names can be found in the NEWS file. Thanks a lot ! Keeping
libmikmod alive wouldn't be much fun without you.


>> LICENSE
----------

The libmikmod sound library is covered by the GNU Library General Public
License as published by the Free Software Fundation (you'll find it in
the file COPYING.LIB) ; either version 2 of the licence, or (at your
option) any later version.

The GNU Lesser General Public License, version 2.1, in file
COPYING.LESSER, can be considered as a later version of the LGPL, and is
strongly recommended for people who will embed libmikmod in their
application as a shared library.

Parts of the library (in playercode/mdulaw.c) are derived from the files
libst.h and raw.c from an old version of the sox (SOund eXchange)
package written by Lance Norskog and Jef Poskanzer. The following
copyright notice applies to these parts:

  Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
   
  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
  documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
  that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
  copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
  documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
  implied warranty.
  
Note that none of these parts are used in the MacOS version of the
libmikmod library.


>> CONTACT AND DOWNLOAD INFO
----------------------------

* email:
  Please send all your libmikmod related e-mail to me, at:
  miod@mikmod.org

* web:
  libmikmod home page is located at:
    http://www.mikmod.org

* ftp:
  Latest releases of libmikmod can be found:
  - on the web site
    htp://www.mikmod.org/files
  - on ibiblio (formerly known as metalab, formerly sunsite) and its mirrors
    ftp://metalab.unc.edu/pub/Linux/apps/sound/libs


>> LAST NOTES
-------------

We hope you'll enjoy using this version of libmikmod as well as we
enjoyed debugging and improving it.

-- Miod Vallat, 01/24/2002
   miod@mikmod.org

   Anders Bjoerklund
   afb@algonet.se
