  Hello folks !


This is libmikmod, version 3.1.10, a portable sound library for Unix.
Check out the file 'NEWS' for more history information.


>> BUILDING LIBMIKMOD
---------------------

- If you're not building libmikmod for OS/2, then you're lost in the
  sources. Go up one directory, and read the main README file.

So you're on a good old OS/2 system, aren't you ? With a customized
Object Desktop or some equivalent tool collection ?

I hope you've installed REXX support during the system installation. If
you didn't, you lose. Run 'selective install' from the system setup
folder, install REXX support, check it works, and come back here.

Currently, libmikmod can be build under OS/2 only with the emx compiler
or the Watcom compiler. Borland C lacks a 64-bit integer type and can't
be used.  You'll need the MMPM/2 toolkit (included in all the Warp
toolkits) to compile the MMPM/2 driver. The Warp 4 toolkit is required
if you want to build the DART driver, too.

Oh, I almost forgot: you need long filenames to compile libmikmod, so
you'll have to compile it on an HPFS drive, or an ext2fs drive, or a
network drive where you can use decent-size filenames.

In this directory, run

  configure

You will then be asked some questions.
First, you'll have to choose your compiler. 

If you choose emx, you can either build a static library, or a DLL with
an import library.

Then, you will be asked if you want to build a debug version; this
option is mainly intended for the libmikmod developers, so you should
answer "N" here.

The next step is the driver selection. You'll be asked if you want the
MMPM/2 and DART drivers. Since DART is not available on OS/2 older than
Warp 4, the MMPM/2 driver is recommended for pre-Warp 4 systems.
Otherwise, the DART driver is preferable, but you can include both to be
sure your libmikmod library will work on every 32 bit version of OS/2.

After the configuration has finished and the Makefiles are created, just
run

	make

and you'll get your libmikmod library in the libmikmod directory.
If the build fails, I'd like to hear from you to correct the problem.

To make you library ready to use, copy the file '..\include\mikmod.h' to
your compiler include directory, and '..\libmikmod\mikmod.lib` to your
compiler library directory. If you built a DLL, put the DLL
(..\libmikmod\mikmod.dll) in a directory which appears in your LIBPATH.

HTML documentation of the library, for programmers, is located in the
doc directory.


>> THANKS
---------

I would like to thank everyone who contributed to libmikmod. Their names
are in the AUTHORS file for the significative contributions, but some
other names can be found in the NEWS file. Thanks a lot ! Keeping
libmikmod alive wouldn't be much fun without you.


>> LICENSE
----------

The libmikmod sound library is covered by the GNU Library General Public
License as published by the Free Software Fundation (you'll find it in
the file COPYING.LIB); either version 2 of the licence, or (at your
option) any later version.

The GNU Lesser General Public License, version 2.1, in file
COPYING.LESSER, can be considered as a later version of the LGPL, and is
strongly recommended for people who will embed libmikmod in their
application as a shared library.

Parts of the library (in playercode/mdulaw.c) are derived from the files
libst.h and raw.c from an old version of the sox (SOund eXchange)
package written by Lance Norskog and Jef Poskanzer. The following
copyright notice applies to these parts:

  Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
   
  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
  documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
  that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
  copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
  documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
  implied warranty.

Note that none of these parts are used in the OS/2 version of the
libmikmod library.


>> CONTACT AND DOWNLOAD INFO
----------------------------

* email:
  Please send all your libmikmod related e-mail to me, at:
  miod@mikmod.org

* web:
  libmikmod home page is located at:
    http://www.mikmod.org

* ftp:
  Latest releases of libmikmod can be found:
  - on the web site
    htp://www.mikmod.org/files
  - on ibiblio (formerly known as metalab, formerly sunsite) and its mirrors
    ftp://metalab.unc.edu/pub/Linux/apps/sound/libs


>> LAST NOTES
-------------

I hope you'll enjoy using this version of libmikmod as well as I enjoyed
debugging and improving it.

-- Miod Vallat, 01/24/2002
   miod@mikmod.org
